In the United States,
not a lot of people ride public transportation-
In fact, about 2%.
Whereas in the city of New York, it's almost 66%.
This has very clear climate benefits.
And therefore, there's some irony
in the fact that the MTA is also
heavily and adversely impacted by climate change,
because our trains and subways run under the ground,
where water and storms and
floods can reach very quickly.
This is a new reality.
This is not something we can ignore.
So we have had to build this into existing
projects, as well as new projects.
For instance, around Lower Manhattan station entrances,
many of these now have steel doors that can
take 10, 12 feet of standing water above them.
We have completed reinforcing
manhole covers,
maintenance hatches.
We have devised ways to raise air vents,
so that even if there's standing water on the
street, it won't actually go into the system.
Responding to climate change is not going to go away.
It has to be baked into everything we do
for the foreseeable future.